Kind welcome back in this video we're looking at printing out the student list which is going to involve
iterating over a list of students and printing out details for every student.
The first thing we want to do is create a method that will essentially print out the details of a single
student.
I'm going to call this method student details and I cannot spell details and it's going to take an A-student
dictionary.
And what I want this method to do is print out a string that tells the user important information about
the student.
Now the important information might be the name it might be.
Each of them are actually a student.
It might be the average mark.
You can decide what you want to print out and just print it out here under student details.
And then we're going to just do that for each of the students in our system and we're going to get to
exactly how we're going to do that in just a moment.
First let's pause the video and print out the important details that you feel the user of the system
should be able to see.
Now that we've got that I'm going to be printing out the name and the average mark you may want to print
on each individual lock as well if you want.
But in my case I'm just gonna keep it simple and print the name and the average mark which is going
to be that and then I you know dot format and all we're going to put here is first the student name
and then the student to write the calculate average mark for the student.
And you know what that does is it gets that string and it formats it with these two values you name
goes where the first set of curly braces is.
Calculate average mark goes with the second set of collaborators.
And then we can just do that and print all of that out.
OK.
Now we can really the comment is no longer necessary and we've got ourselves a method that we'll print
details for one single student.
Now we want to create a method that will print out the details for all of the students in our student
list that your list doesn't yet exist.
So we're going to create that first student on the call list is going to be an empty list when the user
runs the program and they want to add a student.
We're going to put that student in this list and when they want to nab another student We're also going
to put it in this list and so on.
Remember that a list unlike a set is ordered.
The first student that the user adds is going to be index 0.
The next student is going to be in next one and so on and so on.
So let's create a method that will print out the details for each of the students.
And I think you can do this.
Just define a method called Print student details or something like that or print students and then
iterate over the list using a for loop and call the student details method on each of the elements.
I would recommend once again pausing trying that because by practicing it's the best way for you to
learn and to make sure that you're keeping all that knowledge in your head.
So post a video try that and then come back and we'll continue.
Now that we've done that I'm going to create a method called Print students will print student list
.
It doesn't matter what you call it as long as it is fairly self-explanatory name and that's going to
take in a students list which is going to be that one up there.
And the other thing is going to do is for student in students and then it gets a student details of
the shoot.
And this is not students but rather student list because a student list is the same as the name outside
Pi tells you that you're shadowing a name for an outer scope.
So this thing exists out side of this method.
The one that we're calling here is always the one that is defining the method but it is confusing nevertheless
because it has the same name as something that's been defined outside.
So Pensham recommends that you don't do that if you can avoid it.
And I'm just going to call this students just to make that a bit clearer.
And now she didn't details we don't immediately know what that means because it isn't telling us that
it's printing things out.
So what I'm going to do is shift and function 6 and just put print in front and then at the bottom here
it tells you where it'll be used it's been used in the student's package which is our program and then
it can say app.
Why am I in there so we can just do refactor.
And I noticed how the method name changes there as well.
And that now tells us a bit more info for each of the students and student.
We're going to print out that usually tails.
And before if we only have student details it's not really clear what that's doing.
Is that printing things out.
Is that returning a value.
So now it's a bit clearer which is fantastic.
OK.
So this is printing this you know details out and in the next video we are going to be working on the
menu and we're going to realize that we're going to have to make a small change here but we're going
to leave that change for the next video.
Just so you guys can be a bit more clearly why the change is necessary.
So let's leave a small change for the next video and let's go directly onto that.
We're more going to be working on creating a menu for our users.
So what's in the next video